---
layout: post
title: Why you shouldn't think of features to add to your application
---
#Why you shouldn't think of features to add to your application

Following on from my post the other day on why your requirements are
wasting your money, I thought there was one more point worth
mentioning here about how people derive features in the first place.

Let’s imagine, you’ve built your application and have the bare-bones
features required to make your application viable and a money-earner.
What’s the first thing people tend to do? Well, they build on their
basic idea. They brainstorm for all the features that users *might* want
to make their application more useful, and more of a money spinner. They
think about all the little shortcuts people might want, and all the
little time-savers that are possible for the envisaged common use cases.
They then package this stuff up and add it to the “requirements”.

**Stop**.

*Do not* dream up features for your app. *Do not* try and pre-empt what
the users might want, and what features will make your app better. Just
don’t.

**Listen**.

*Your users will tell you* what they want added to the app. *Your users
will tell you* what shortcuts they want to take, and they will most
probably moan unless you add stuff their way.

**So don’t.**

*Don’t* add features due to user feedback. *Don’t*add features because
one particular user keeps banging on about it. Take the features that
**you** feel have bubbled to the top of the feedback pile, decide
whether or not **you** think they make the application better, and then
implement it how **you** want it implemented. Some users will hate you
for it, some will love you for it, but ultimately you will end up with a
better application as a result.

Above all though, you’d have saved yourself a bundle of cash by not
implementing all the things that you *thought* people wanted.