---
layout: post
title: Regurgitating Search Engine Optimisation
---
#Regurgitating Search Engine Optimisation
Fairly often, we at [Monochrome][] come across ‘search engine
optimisers’. These people are there to provide a service to companies
that sits somewhere between the technical. the marketing, and the
design.

Essentially the brief is simple. Take a website (either at concept
stages, or already live) and tweak it so that when a user is looking for
a relevant term on one of the major search engines, the site in question
will appear near the top of the organic search results.

There’s a number of tried and tested ways of doing this, plus a wide
variety of [old wives tales][] that some people believe make a
difference. However, search engine optimisation is fairly [simple and
straightforward][], and not something that a lot of people need spend a
lot of time on. Once you’ve got the basics in place you’re pretty much
good to go, as long as you keep your standards up and keep doing what
the search engines like you to be doing.

However, one thing that is becoming more and more apparent is the
quality of these services that other people provide and the approach
that is taken. From the various optimisation companies that I have come
across, the vast majority follow a standard path. This will initially
consist of the running of some sort of tool that spits out graphs and
tables of how your site might be performing on some varying measures
(which might or might not be relevant), and they then chuck all this
into a standard document that get’s sent to the client.

You’ll always get the standard fare - Meta tags, page rank, canonical
URLs, H1 tags etc etc etc. You’ll also find that most of the data is
already available to you via tools such as [Google’s Webmaster Tools][]

Now, this initial work could cost thousands depending on the agency and
site in mind (bigger client, bigger bucks), but ultimately the work
required isn’t drastically different. SEO is SEO.

What comes next is the monthly cost that the vast majority charge - for
instance, charging to tend to the garden of keywords that you might be
targeting, or ensuring your markup is up to par. Other than that, it’s
pretty much rinse and repeat.

So, why do companies blindly pay this money out? Essentially you’re
paying the vast majority of SEO’s to cut and paste into a word document,
and provide you with a few snazzy graphs. You’re then paying well over
the odds for a couple of hours of maintenance. If developers charged the
same amount, we’d all be laughed out of the room.

The biggest problem is the charging model. Every SEO company I’ve ever
met charge via the standard mechanism. However, their benefit to the
site varies, so why do we not have these companies charge by results?

You engage with an SEO in order to raise the profile of your site and
achieve some *other* objective - increase traffic, increase leads,
increase conversions, raise brand awareness. You have ideas on how much
you want to achieve your objective by - page views up by 25%,
conversions up by 10%. Therefore, why do we pay SEO’s regardless? Surely
we should only pay these people if they achieve what we wanted and to a
satisfactory level? After all, you wouldn’t pay a interior decorator if
he only painted half a room, would you.

So - search engine optimisers - do yourself a favour. Find out WHY the
client wants to talk to you, WHAT they want to achieve and WHAT sort of
budget they might have to try and do this. Only once you do this will
you truly be able to add a worthwhile service to your client that they
will be happy to pay for again and again.

  [Monochrome]: http://www.monochrome.co.uk
  [old wives tales]: http://www.helpfulguy.com/why-googles-electricity-bill-affects-your-seo/
  [simple and straightforward]: http://neilmiddleton.com/a-new-approach-to-search-engine-optimisation
  [Google’s Webmaster Tools]: https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools
