---
layout: post
title:  Forget Mobile The Web Is Where It's At
---
#Forget Mobile The Web Is Where It's At
Over the last few months, it would appear that global internet
thermonuclear war has set in.

This, for the most part has been surrounding the mobile platforms out
there. Apple’s i(Phone/Pad/Pod Touch) has been battling Google’s
Android, Apple has been battling with Adobe [over Flash][], and then
there’s the patent wars between[Apple, Google, HTC and Microsoft.][]

It’s a pretty big fight.

So, what do developers do? From a skills point of view we want to be
aligned with the most popular platform that will give us the most
marketability - yet from a business point of view we want our
applications to work on as many platforms as possible to maximise the
‘attack surface’ in the various markets out there and gain the most
revenue.

Then there’s the different markets - Apple have their [draconian
approval process][], but provide the class leading App Store, whereas
Google is all about free-love and sell it how you want.

Then there’s the platforms. Objective-C, Java, Regular C, Flash etc etc
etc etc. The list goes on.

So what are we developers to do - how are we supposed to navigate
through this minefield of options? Well, it’s pretty simple actually:

Ignore it.

Every mobile phone manufacturer is striving to produce a browser on
their phone that can view the whole web in a similar way to a desktop
computer, and all are striving to support the latest and greatest.
Therefore, surely the easiest way for us web developers to bring an
application to a phone is to simply look at it through a browser?

Picture this, you have an application out there in the wild, you want it
to work on the iPhone, so use Safari - job done. It’ll also work on
Android with no changes, and is also not dependant on Apple’s approval
or anything else, you can do it how you want. Additionally, with
libraries like [JQTouch][] you can access phone hardware should you want
to.

But OK, this isn’t ideal for all situations. You won’t have offline
access as such, you won’t be able to build games, you won’t get amazing
performance - but for the most part, that’s not a big trade off for most
business focused applications.

So, in short, why are we worrying about learning all these different
tools to make our applications available on different mobile platforms,
when we are already expert in the single tool that will make our app
truly cross platform - the good old world wide web…

  [over Flash]: http://news.cnet.com/8301-30685_3-20003006-264.html?tag=mncol;txt
  [Apple, Google, HTC and Microsoft.]: http://news.cnet.com/8301-13860_3-20003602-56.html
  [draconian approval process]: http://news.cnet.com/8301-13579_3-10315328-37.html
  [JQTouch]: http://www.jqtouch.com/
