---
layout: post
title: Don't be dependant
---
#Don't be dependant
Over the last couple of weeks it would appear that people are finally
starting to realise that being dependant on another business is a bad
idea.

For instance, last week [Apple][] decided that it would cut off anyone
not building iPhone applications using it’s own tools, cutting out
Flash, Silverlight and a whole load of other people. The Flash community
immediately stands up and proclaims how that’s bad and that Apple
‘aren’t allowed’ to block them out. Problem is, they are. Apple can do
what the hell they like with the iPhone platform. They can block
everyone out if they want, or insist that all developers paint
themselves bright pink - it’s up to them, it’s their product, it’s their
success.

Another thing that happened in the last week is [Twitter][] acquired
[Tweetie][], the iPhone based twitter client, with the aim of making
this the official mobile client for Twitter on the iPhone. All the other
twitter client authors out there immediately stood up and proclaimed how
having an anointed client would put their own client out of business.
Well, funnily enough Twitter are perfectly entitled to do this, it’s
their product, it’s their success.

Overall, these simple moves have proved a simple point. Basing your
business plan on anything that is dependant on another company
completely is a really bad idea. If you’re in a position where you can
be put out of business by another business making a single simple
decision - you’re doing something wrong.

For instance, imagine that you’re a company who makes a little helper
app for Windows. You see great success, and you’re dependant on the
Windows product. However, Redmond wake up and see you’re selling loads
of licenses, they realise that you’ve got something that is in great
demand - so they build it into Windows itself as a native feature in
order to reap the benefits.

**WHAM!**

You now have no business, no customers, and no future. You’ve been
screwed in one easy move by another company and there’s nothing you can
do about it.

So. Do your own thing. Make you own way. Do it the way you want to do
it, and how you want to do it. And if you have to be dependant, make
sure you’ve got a good Plan B.

  [Apple]: http://www.apple.com
  [Twitter]: http://twitter.com
  [Tweetie]: http://www.atebits.com/tweetie-iphone/
