---
layout: post
title: Watch your users – they’re trying to tell you something…
---

#Watch your users – they’re trying to tell you something…

Imagine this: You’re a web based company. You build a new site. You put
it live and sit back and bask in glory.

You then forget about it until the next redesign.

If there’s one thing the vast majority of web companies do, it’s not
keep tabs on the users of their sites, which are the whole reason the
site exists in the first place.

Every single visitor to the website is giving you important information
about your website. Every single user is clicking on things, moving
their mouse around and searching for information. By listening to what
these people are doing, you can learn a lot about where your site could
be improved. For instance, that lots of people are clicking on some text
that isn’t a link, or that people aren’t clicking at all on a magical
image slideshow you’ve come up with.

If you’re not listening to this information, you’re losing out.

So, how do we do this? Well, first off, and easiest is to use your
analytics tool as it’s meant to use. Tools such as [Google Analytics][]
don’t just tell you how much traffic your getting, but also where in the
site the traffic is going and where it’s dropping out. It can also tell
you about the occurrences of certain events that you can declare
programatically (how many people have looked at my whizzy tooltip, how
many have seen this mouseover etc).

Secondly, you can use heat mapping tools such as [CrazyEgg][]. Apps
like these show you where people are clicking, and where they’ve hovered
their mouse, which gives you an insight into where on the page your
users are moving – which then gives you ideas as to what parts of the
page generate the most interest. By coupling this with your analytics
you can work out where the weaker parts of your site/application are.
You can see that people aren’t visiting a section of your site because
no-one is noticing the links to it elsewhere in the site.

Overall, regardless of how you gather this information, your users are
using your site and leaving behind evidence of how they are behaving.
Not using this knowledge is wasting a very valuable resource that can
only serve to make your site better as time goes on.

  [Google Analytics]: http://www.google.com/analytics
  [CrazyEgg]: http://crazyegg.com/
